docs/uns-network-key-concepts/README.md, before:

---
home: false
title: "Key Concepts Summary"
---

# uns.network key concepts

## [Cryptography Overview](/uns-network-key-concepts/cryptography-overview)

In the blockchain world you must rely on cryptography to make it happends! uns.blockchain cryptography is based on ARK.IO basics augmented with specificties related to Decentralized IDs and Decentralized Public Key Infrastructure requirements.

## Understanding IDs rooted in uns.network blockchain

:::tip
- **UNIK** is the name of the token representing a single @unikname within the uns.network blockchain.  
- **NFT** Stands for Non Fungible Token. All **UNIKs tokens are NFTs.** NFT differs from a traditional coin or utility token as it is not divible (not fongible), and each one is unique.  
:::

### [Decentralized ID: the UNIK Non Fongible Token](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-did-nft)

Every @unikname is a unique string of characters, forming a human-readable identifier, easily readable, pronounceable and shareable like an email address. They're built with SafeTypo© technology for a peerless User eXperience. Every @unikname materializes in the form of a Non Fongible Token called UNIK within the <uns/> blockchain, and becomes Decentralized IDs, also calle DID. 

### [Registries of properties](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-property)


### [Types of IDs](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-type)

@unikname IDs are minted with a type according to their purpose.

### [Pattern of IDs](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-pattern)

The way the character string formming a @unikname is combined can be classified into patterns. Patterns are used to determine the cost of @unikname and to control @unikname issuance.

### [Badges](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-badge)

Each @unikname is assigned trust badges. They provide information on the qualities of UNIK and its involvement in the network.

## Understanding DPOS of uns.network blockchain

Commit message:

docs(key concepts): add life cycle status description

docs/uns-network-key-concepts/README.md, after:

---
home: false
title: "Key Concepts Summary"
---

# uns.network key concepts

:::tip
Here we discribe key concepts of the UNS network. Those concepts are designed, but not all of them are implemented yet.
Please, wait a little bit more to try everthing, and look at up right now what the future will be!
:::


## [Cryptography Overview](/uns-network-key-concepts/cryptography-overview)

In the blockchain world you must rely on cryptography to make it happends! uns.blockchain cryptography is based on ARK.IO basics augmented with specificties related to Decentralized IDs and Decentralized Public Key Infrastructure requirements.

## Understanding IDs rooted in uns.network blockchain

:::tip
- **UNIK** is the name of the token representing a single @unikname within the uns.network blockchain.  
- **NFT** Stands for Non Fungible Token. All **UNIKs tokens are NFTs.** NFT differs from a traditional coin or utility token as it is not divible (not fongible), and each one is unique.  
:::

### [Decentralized ID: the UNIK Non Fongible Token](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-did-nft)

Every @unikname is a unique string of characters, forming a human-readable identifier, easily readable, pronounceable and shareable like an email address. They're built with SafeTypo© technology for a peerless User eXperience. Every @unikname materializes in the form of a Non Fongible Token called UNIK within the <uns/> blockchain, and becomes Decentralized IDs, also calle DID. 

### [Registries of properties](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-property)


### [Types of IDs](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-type)

@unikname IDs are minted with a type according to their purpose.

### [Pattern of IDs](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-pattern)

The way the character string formming a @unikname is combined can be classified into patterns. Patterns are used to determine the cost of @unikname and to control @unikname issuance.

### [Badges](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-badge)

Each @unikname is assigned trust badges. They provide information on the qualities of UNIK and its involvement in the network.

### [Life Cycle Status](/uns-network-key-concepts/unik-lifecycle)

Every @unikname have a life cycle status. Before creation, in case of reservation, the @unikname status is **Issued**. At its creation, it becomes **Minted**. To being **Alive**, the @unikname has to sets-up its *My Unikname application*.

At any moment, a user can aks for a recomputing of his @unikname's life cycle status, but only to its own.

## Understanding DPOS of uns.network blockchain
