docs/uns-network-player/creating-unikname-organization.md, before:

---
prev: /uns-network-player/
---

#  Creating @unikname id for an organization

::: warning @unikname id for becoming a delegate

:warning: You are about to create a @unikname id for **becoming a <uns/> delegate**. :warning:

If you are trying to create your @unikname id to integrate your application with Unikname Connect, [go to the Unikname Help Center](https://help.unikname.com/3-unikname-connect/) instead.

:::

**Table of Content**

[[toc]]


## Installing the uns.network CLI

The <uns/> Command Line Interface (CLI) makes it easy to manage your @unikname and Unikname apps directly from the terminal.
It’s an essential part of using <uns/>.

| <h1><vp-icon name="windows-brands" size="2em" /><br/>Windows</h1> | <h1><vp-icon name="apple-brands" size="2em" /><br/>macOS</h1> | <h1><vp-icon name="linux-brands" size="2em" /><br/>Linux</h1> |
|:-----------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------:|
| <h4>![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/unik-name%2Funs-cli.svg)</h4><h3>[Download the 64-bit installer](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-x64.exe)</h3>        | <h4>![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/unik-name%2Funs-cli.svg)</h4><h3>[Download the tarball*](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-darwin-x64.tar.gz)</h3>      | <h4>![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/unik-name%2Funs-cli.svg)</h4><h3>[Download the 64-bit tarball*](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-linux-x64.tar.gz)</h3>or<h3>[Download the ARMv7+ tarball*](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-linux-arm.tar.gz)</h3>      |

*: you should then add `{TARBALL_EXTRACTION_FOLDER}/bin` into your `PATH` environment variable in order to be able to run `uns` command.

[Alternate installation modes are also available in the CLI documentation](/uns-use-the-network/cli.html#download-and-installation).

:::tip On Windows
Execute the file downloaded to procede to installation.
Windows may display a warning, but don't worry, just continue the procedure.*
:::

You can check that your installation is finished by entering `uns` into your command prompt.
You should see the following menu :

```bash
$ uns
UNS.network CLI

VERSION
  @uns/cli/X.X.X XXX XXX

USAGE
  $ uns [COMMAND]

COMMANDS
  cryptoaccount  Manage Crypto Account (`uns cryptoaccount` to display Crypto Account commands)
  ...
```

If you want more details about the CLI and tips to use it, check the [CLI documentation](/uns-use-the-network/cli.html).
You are now ready for the next step !

## Creating your cryptoaccount

### Creating and saving your cryptoaccount informations

Your cryptoaccount is required for all the following steps. To create it, just execute the following command: `cryptoaccount:create`.
Here is an example of what you are supposed to see on your command prompt.
```bash
uns cryptoaccount:create
» :warn: This information is not saved anywhere. You need to copy and save it by your own.;
{
  "address": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "publicKey": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "privateKey": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "passphrase": "XXXXX XXXXX XXXX XXXXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXX XXXXX",
  "network": "livenet"
}
```

:::warning
**You have to copy and save preciously these informations! If you lose these informations, you'll also lose access to your cryptoaccount and your @unikname.**
:::

## Using a COUPON to create the organization @unikname 

Creating an organization @unikname requires a COUPON. If you have one, you can continue. 
Otherwise, [go to the UNS Forum](https://forum.unikname.com/c/uns-network/7) to request one.

## Create your @unikname

Once you have your coupon, all you have to do is create your @unikname!

**Don't forget to backup and secure your passphrase**, it will allow you to retrieve access to your @unikname in case you change your device.
Neither <uns/>, nor Unikname will be able to give you back access to your @unikname.

With <uns/> CLI you can create your own UNIK token using [`unik:create`](/uns-use-the-network/cli.html#unik-create) command.

:::warning Choosing the @unikname
Choose the @unikname wisely. Indeed, it'll be disclosed to other people and they'll know you by this @unikname and once you've chosen a name, you won't be able to change it.
:::

As example, for creating the UNIK `organization` token `SpaceElephant` with the coupon you have received:

```bash
$ uns unik:create --explicitValue "SpaceElephant" --type organization --coupon "HERE_THE_COUPON"
Enter your crypto account passphrase (12 words phrase): ***************************
{
  "data": {
    "id": "ccabe13311350a306d510c3484889a151eda9a1b61b5fe4d346fd3b1eeb42c25",
    "transaction": "4bcde02ec632bd5531aa8710b0a13f469a59caec910dc610d46f6b8ebdcaf9ac",
    "confirmations": 1
  }
}
```
::: tip UnikId
Write somewhere your unikId (`id` here, with value `ccabe13311350a306d510c3484889a151eda9a1b61b5fe4d346fd3b1eeb42c25`)! You need it in the following instructions.
:::

### Checking the creation of the @unikname in the Explorer

With the transaction id given into your command prompt, you can check the @unikname creation through [the explorer](https://explorer.uns.network/). Look for the @unikname by its unikId in the search bar on the top.

You can also directly go to `https://explorer.uns.network/${unikid}` in your browser.
For example, [https://explorer.uns.network/uniks/ccabe13311350a306d510c3484889a151eda9a1b61b5fe4d346fd3b1eeb42c25](https://explorer.uns.network/uniks/ccabe13311350a306d510c3484889a151eda9a1b61b5fe4d346fd3b1eeb42c25) for the @unikname `SpaceElephant`.

And now, [let's go registering your organization as a delegate](./registering-as-delegate).

Commit message:

doc(delegate): add cross links between some pages

docs/uns-network-player/creating-unikname-organization.md, after:

---
prev: /uns-network-player/
---

#  Creating @unikname id for an organization

You want to become a delegate with an organization @unikname id, so you need to create your organization @unikname id.

👉 If you have changed your mind, you can also [become a delegate with an individual @unikname id](./creating-your-unikname-individual.html).

::: warning @unikname id for becoming a delegate

:warning: You are about to create a @unikname id for **becoming a <uns/> delegate**. :warning:

If you are trying to create your @unikname id to integrate your application with Unikname Connect, [go to the Unikname Help Center](https://help.unikname.com/3-unikname-connect/) instead.

:::

**Table of Content**

[[toc]]


## Installing the uns.network CLI

The <uns/> Command Line Interface (CLI) makes it easy to manage your @unikname and Unikname apps directly from the terminal.
It’s an essential part of using <uns/>.

| <h1><vp-icon name="windows-brands" size="2em" /><br/>Windows</h1> | <h1><vp-icon name="apple-brands" size="2em" /><br/>macOS</h1> | <h1><vp-icon name="linux-brands" size="2em" /><br/>Linux</h1> |
|:-----------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------:|
| <h4>![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/unik-name%2Funs-cli.svg)</h4><h3>[Download the 64-bit installer](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-x64.exe)</h3>        | <h4>![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/unik-name%2Funs-cli.svg)</h4><h3>[Download the tarball*](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-darwin-x64.tar.gz)</h3>      | <h4>![GitHub version](https://badge.fury.io/gh/unik-name%2Funs-cli.svg)</h4><h3>[Download the 64-bit tarball*](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-linux-x64.tar.gz)</h3>or<h3>[Download the ARMv7+ tarball*](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-linux-arm.tar.gz)</h3>      |

*: you should then add `{TARBALL_EXTRACTION_FOLDER}/bin` into your `PATH` environment variable in order to be able to run `uns` command.

[Alternate installation modes are also available in the CLI documentation](/uns-use-the-network/cli.html#download-and-installation).

:::tip On Windows
Execute the file downloaded to procede to installation.
Windows may display a warning, but don't worry, just continue the procedure.
:::

You can check that your installation is finished by entering `uns` into your command prompt.
You should see the following menu :

```bash
$ uns
UNS.network CLI

VERSION
  @uns/cli/X.X.X XXX XXX

USAGE
  $ uns [COMMAND]

COMMANDS
  cryptoaccount  Manage Crypto Account (`uns cryptoaccount` to display Crypto Account commands)
  ...
```

If you want more details about the CLI and tips to use it, check the [CLI documentation](/uns-use-the-network/cli.html).
You are now ready for the next step !

## Creating your cryptoaccount

### Creating and saving your cryptoaccount informations

Your cryptoaccount is required for all the following steps. To create it, just execute the following command: `cryptoaccount:create`.
Here is an example of what you are supposed to see on your command prompt.
```bash
uns cryptoaccount:create
» :warn: This information is not saved anywhere. You need to copy and save it by your own.;
{
  "address": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "publicKey": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "privateKey": "XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX",
  "passphrase": "XXXXX XXXXX XXXX XXXXXXXX XXXXXX XXXXXXX XXXX XXXXX",
  "network": "livenet"
}
```

:::warning
**You have to copy and save preciously these informations! If you lose these informations, you'll also lose access to your cryptoaccount and your @unikname.**
:::

## Using a COUPON to create the organization @unikname 

Creating an organization @unikname requires a COUPON. If you have one, you can continue. 
Otherwise, [go to the UNS Forum](https://forum.unikname.com/c/uns-network/7) to request one.

## Create your @unikname

Once you have your coupon, all you have to do is create your @unikname!

**Don't forget to backup and secure your passphrase**, it will allow you to retrieve access to your @unikname in case you change your device.
Neither <uns/>, nor Unikname will be able to give you back access to your @unikname.

With <uns/> CLI you can create your own UNIK token using [`unik:create`](/uns-use-the-network/cli.html#unik-create) command.

:::warning Choosing the @unikname
Choose the @unikname wisely. Indeed, it'll be disclosed to other people and they'll know you by this @unikname and once you've chosen a name, you won't be able to change it.
:::

As example, for creating the UNIK `organization` token `SpaceElephant` with the coupon you have received:

```bash
$ uns unik:create --explicitValue "SpaceElephant" --type organization --coupon "HERE_THE_COUPON"
Enter your crypto account passphrase (12 words phrase): ***************************
{
  "data": {
    "id": "ccabe13311350a306d510c3484889a151eda9a1b61b5fe4d346fd3b1eeb42c25",
    "transaction": "4bcde02ec632bd5531aa8710b0a13f469a59caec910dc610d46f6b8ebdcaf9ac",
    "confirmations": 1
  }
}
```
::: tip UnikId
Write somewhere your unikId (`id` here, with value `ccabe13311350a306d510c3484889a151eda9a1b61b5fe4d346fd3b1eeb42c25`)! You need it in the following instructions.
:::

### Checking the creation of the @unikname in the Explorer

With the transaction id given into your command prompt, you can check the @unikname creation through [the explorer](https://explorer.uns.network/). Look for the @unikname by its unikId in the search bar on the top.

You can also directly go to `https://explorer.uns.network/${unikid}` in your browser.
For example, [https://explorer.uns.network/uniks/ccabe13311350a306d510c3484889a151eda9a1b61b5fe4d346fd3b1eeb42c25](https://explorer.uns.network/uniks/ccabe13311350a306d510c3484889a151eda9a1b61b5fe4d346fd3b1eeb42c25) for the @unikname `SpaceElephant`.

And now, [let's go registering your organization as a delegate](./registering-as-delegate).
