docs/uns-network-player/README.md, before:

---
home: false
title: "Becoming UNS Network Player"
---

# Becoming a Network Player


## Become a delegate

As prerequisite to be a delegate, you must have :
- a wallet with positive balance (at least 30 DUNS). 
- a [forger node]() configured with your wallet passphrase.

Then, all process can be done through the [desktop wallet](/uns-usethenetwork/wallet.html#basic-wallets).

On wallet detail screen, expand top bar options and choose `Register Delegate`

![Delegate](./images/delegate.png)

Choose a delegate name (warning, you won't be able to update your name) and input your passphrase (or password).

![Registration](./images/registration.png)

Finally submit your transaction.

![Transaction](./images/transaction.png)

Now, your job is done. You can check on [explorer](https://explorer.devnet.uns.network/#/delegate-monitor) that you're in delegate list (either in `active` or `standby` tab).

If you're in the `active` tab, congratulation, you're a UNS delegate, and your forger node is actually forging blocks and getting rewards.

If you're in the `standby` tab, you need to gather more voting power than current active delegates (i.e. have wallets with positive balance voting for you).

Commit message:

doc(player): explain how to get DUNS from faucet

docs/uns-network-player/README.md, after:

---
home: false
title: "Becoming UNS Network Player"
---

# Becoming a Network Player


## Become a delegate on the DEVNET

As prerequisite to be a delegate, you must have :
- a wallet with positive balance with at least 30 DUNS (you can request DUNS [from the faucet](/uns-usethenetwork/#devnet-faucet)).
- a [forger node]() configured with your wallet passphrase.

Then, all process can be done through the [desktop wallet](/uns-usethenetwork/wallet.html#basic-wallets).

On wallet detail screen, expand top bar options and choose `Register Delegate`

![Delegate](./images/delegate.png)

Choose a delegate name (warning, you won't be able to update your name) and input your passphrase (or password).

![Registration](./images/registration.png)

Finally submit your transaction.

![Transaction](./images/transaction.png)

Now, your job is done. You can check on [explorer](https://explorer.devnet.uns.network/#/delegate-monitor) that you're in delegate list (either in `active` or `standby` tab).

If you're in the `active` tab, congratulation, you're a UNS delegate, and your forger node is actually forging blocks and getting rewards.

If you're in the `standby` tab, you need to gather more voting power than current active delegates (i.e. have wallets with positive balance voting for you).
