docs/uns-network-guides/docker-configuration.md, before:

# UNS Core configuration

[[TOC]]

## Docker images

UNS Docker images are available on Docker Hub: [https://hub.docker.com/r/universalnamesystem/core](https://hub.docker.com/r/universalnamesystem/core).

Images for `livenet` and `sandbox` can be found.

## Docker environment variables

UNS Core allows you to provide a configuration that is environment specific to your Docker orchestrator (Compose, Kubernetes ...) without having to touch the internal configuration.

The default values are meant to be used with the UNS Docker container.

| Variable | Default value | Note / Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `CORE_API_CACHE_TIMEOUT` | `8000` |   |
| `CORE_API_DISABLED` | `false` |   |
| `CORE_API_NO_ESTIMATED_TOTAL_COUNT` | `false` |   |
| `CORE_API_RATE_LIMIT` | `true` |   |
| `CORE_API_RATE_LIMIT_USER_EXPIRES` | `60000` |   |
| `CORE_API_RATE_LIMIT_USER_LIMIT` | `300` |   |
| `CORE_DB_HOST` | `localhost` |   |
| `CORE_DB_PORT` | `5432` |   |
| `CORE_DB_DATABASE` | `uns_livenet` | sandbox: `uns_sandbox`  |
| `CORE_DB_USERNAME` | `uns` |   |
| `CORE_DB_PASSWORD` | `password` |   |
| `CORE_EXCHANGE_JSON_RPC_ENABLED` | `false` |   |
| `CORE_LOG_LEVEL` | `debug` | Other values: `info`, `warn`, `error`  |
| `CORE_LOG_LEVEL_FILE` | `trace` |   |
| `CORE_LOG_PROCESS_ERRORS_ENABLED` | `false` |
| `CORE_MAX_TRANSACTIONS_IN_POOL` | `100000` |   |
| `CORE_P2P_PEER_VERIFIER_DEBUG_EXTRA` | `false` |
| `CORE_P2P_MAX_PEERS_SAME_SUBNET` | `5` |   |
| `CORE_P2P_RATE_LIMIT` | `100` |   |
| `CORE_TRANSACTION_POOL_DISABLED` | `false` |   |
| `CORE_TRANSACTION_POOL_MAX_PER_SENDER` | `300` |   |
| `CORE_TRANSACTION_POOL_MAX_PER_REQUEST` | `40` |   |
| `CORE_VOTE_REPORT_DELEGATE_ROWS` | `80` |   |
| `CORE_WEBHOOKS_ENABLED` | `false` | If you enable this, you will need to bind the webhook port (see [Docker ports](#docker-ports) below) |
| `CORE_WEBHOOKS_TIMEOUT` | `1500` |   |
| `FORGER_SECRET` | - | one of `FORGER_SECRET` or `FORGERS_SECRET` is required for forging |
| `FORGERS_SECRET` | - | one of `FORGER_SECRET` or `FORGERS_SECRET` is required for forging |
| `UNS_NET` | no, but required | `livenet` or `sandbox` |

## Docker ports

All ports must be bound between the container and the host.

| Name | Port number to be bounded | Configured by default in the reference Docker-compose file |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Core P2P port | livenet: `4001`<br/>sandbox: `4002` | ✅ |
| Core API port | `4003` | livenet:❌ <br/>sandbox: ✅ |
| Core Webhooks Port | `4004` | ❌ |
| Core Vote Report Port | `4006` | ❌ |
| Core Wallet Api Port | `4040` | ❌ |
| Core Exchange Json Rpc Port | `8080` | ❌ |

Commit message:

doc(docker): add new environment variables

docs/uns-network-guides/docker-configuration.md, after:

# UNS Core configuration

[[TOC]]

## Docker images

UNS Docker images are available on Docker Hub: [https://hub.docker.com/r/universalnamesystem/core](https://hub.docker.com/r/universalnamesystem/core).

Images for `livenet` and `sandbox` can be found.

## Docker environment variables

UNS Core allows you to provide a configuration that is environment specific to your Docker orchestrator (Compose, Kubernetes ...) without having to touch the internal configuration.

The default values are meant to be used with the UNS Docker container.

| Variable | Default value | Note / Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `CORE_API_CACHE_TIMEOUT` | `8000` |   |
| `CORE_API_DISABLED` | `false` |   |
| `CORE_API_NO_ESTIMATED_TOTAL_COUNT` | `false` |   |
| `CORE_API_PORT` | `4003` | ⚠ If changed, you may need to update your Docker Compose configuration |
| `CORE_API_RATE_LIMIT` | `true` |   |
| `CORE_API_RATE_LIMIT_USER_EXPIRES` | `60000` |   |
| `CORE_API_RATE_LIMIT_USER_LIMIT` | `300` |   |
| `CORE_DB_HOST` | `localhost` |   |
| `CORE_DB_PORT` | `5432` | ⚠ If changed, you may need to update your Docker Compose configuration |
| `CORE_DB_DATABASE` | `uns_livenet` | sandbox: `uns_sandbox`  |
| `CORE_DB_USERNAME` | `uns` |   |
| `CORE_DB_PASSWORD` | `password` |   |
| `CORE_EXCHANGE_JSON_RPC_ENABLED` | `false` |   |
| `CORE_LOG_LEVEL` | `debug` | Other values: `info`, `warn`, `error`  |
| `CORE_LOG_LEVEL_FILE` | `trace` |   |
| `CORE_LOG_PROCESS_ERRORS_ENABLED` | `false` |
| `CORE_MAX_TRANSACTIONS_IN_POOL` | `100000` |   |
| `CORE_P2P_PEER_VERIFIER_DEBUG_EXTRA` | `false` |
| `CORE_P2P_PORT` | sandbox: `4002` <br/>livenet: `4001` | ⚠ If changed, you may need to update your Docker Compose configuration |
| `CORE_P2P_MAX_PEERS_SAME_SUBNET` | `5` |   |
| `CORE_P2P_RATE_LIMIT` | `100` |   |
| `CORE_TRANSACTION_POOL_DISABLED` | `false` |   |
| `CORE_TRANSACTION_POOL_MAX_PER_SENDER` | `300` |   |
| `CORE_TRANSACTION_POOL_MAX_PER_REQUEST` | `40` |   |
| `CORE_VOTE_REPORT_DELEGATE_ROWS` | `80` |   |
| `CORE_WEBHOOKS_ENABLED` | `false` | If you enable this, you will need to bind the webhook port (see [Docker ports](#docker-ports) below) |
| `CORE_WEBHOOKS_TIMEOUT` | `1500` |   |
| `FORGER_SECRET` | - | one of `FORGER_SECRET` or `FORGERS_SECRET` is required for forging |
| `FORGERS_SECRET` | - | one of `FORGER_SECRET` or `FORGERS_SECRET` is required for forging |
| `UNS_NET` | no, but required | `livenet` or `sandbox` |

## Docker ports

All ports must be bound between the container and the host.

| Name | Port number to be bounded | Configured by default in the reference Docker-compose file |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Core P2P port | livenet: `4001`<br/>sandbox: `4002` | ✅ |
| Core API port | `4003` | livenet:❌ <br/>sandbox: ✅ |
| Core Webhooks Port | `4004` | ❌ |
| Core Vote Report Port | `4006` | ❌ |
| Core Wallet Api Port | `4040` | ❌ |
| Core Exchange Json Rpc Port | `8080` | ❌ |
