docs/uns-use-the-network/README.md, before:

---
home: false
title: "Interacting with the uns.network"
---

# Interacting with the uns.network

Users can interact or let say 'use' the <uns/> in multiple ways depending on user's needs.

If you're familiar with the <uns/> environement, you may be interested to use the [cheat sheet](cheatsheet) to get a quick overwiew of usefull commands and APIs.

### Use the CLI, to go fast with basic actions

The CLI (Command Line Interface) has been designed to facilitate basic actions and testing. With the CLI you can create a wallet, mint a @unik-name into the chain, update user's properties, list existing tokens or query the status of the network, and many other things. 

The CLI runs with the LIVENET but also with the SANDBOX for integration testing. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](cli)

### Use the APIs, to consume network services

All network services can be used via the <uns/> APIs. This is the best way for developers to integrate <uns/> services into their own developpements and APPs. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](api)

### Use the SDKs, to quickly embed <uns/> features, and @unik-name solutions, withing APPs

SDKs have been developped to simplify developer work when they integrate @unik-name solutions within their plateforms or their APPs. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](sdk)

### Use Wallets and @unik-name APP

Wallets are end user tools, ready to use to transfer and to manage tokens. 

@unik-name mobile APP is the prefered user APP within our ecosystem. 

First of all @unik-name mobile APP is used to: 
1. to authenticate connection to any web platform, 
1. to manage his/her @unik-names,
1. to manage his/her personal data linked with @unik-names,

but @unik-name mobile APP is also used : 
- to handle and transfer UNS tokens, 
- to handle and transfer UNIK tokens, 
- to trigger transactions over the network and requiring tokens,
- to consume network services 

[Read more &rightarrow;](wallet)

### Use the SANDBOX, to test your developments, or to test new features

The SANDBOX is a uns.network dedicated for testing, it's operated by some delegates of the community.

You can connect a node to the SANDBOX by configuring the CLI, SDK, and even a dedicated chain explorer.

#### What can you do with the SANDBOX ?

- Creating test accounts
- Developing and testing applications for free (use the faucet to get SUNS tokens)
- Testing existing applications against new releases or release candidates of <uns/> Core

Please note that **this network is ephemeral**, and may be reset anytime. Resets will be announced several days before the effective operation, so follow [announcements published on the unik-name forum](https://forum.unik-name.com/c/uns-network).

#### SANDBOX faucet

If you need SUNS tokens to test the <uns/> features (creating your UNIK for example), you can ask for SUNS on [the unik-name forum](https://forum.unik-name.com/c/uns-network/faucet).
Don't forget to provide your wallet address, created with [the <uns/> CLI](cli.html#create-wallet) or [the desktop wallet](wallet) (it must start with a `S` letter, such as `SHxZ4PSU9uaDeEhsfinn8jCempbLwwyFQB`).

Commit message:

docs(anywhere): refactor use of @unik-name, @unikname and Unikname

docs/uns-use-the-network/README.md, after:

---
home: false
title: "Interacting with the uns.network"
---

# Interacting with the uns.network

Users can interact or let say 'use' the <uns/> in multiple ways depending on user's needs.

If you're familiar with the <uns/> environement, you may be interested to use the [cheat sheet](cheatsheet) to get a quick overwiew of usefull commands and APIs.

### Use the CLI, to go fast with basic actions

The CLI (Command Line Interface) has been designed to facilitate basic actions and testing. With the CLI you can create a wallet, mint a @unikname into the chain, update user's properties, list existing tokens or query the status of the network, and many other things. 

The CLI runs with the LIVENET but also with the SANDBOX for integration testing. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](cli)

### Use the APIs, to consume network services

All network services can be used via the <uns/> APIs. This is the best way for developers to integrate <uns/> services into their own developpements and APPs. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](api)

### Use the SDKs, to quickly embed <uns/> features, and Unikname solutions, withing APPs

SDKs have been developped to simplify developer work when they integrate Unikname solutions within their plateforms or their APPs. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](sdk)

### Use Wallets and Unikname APP

Wallets are end user tools, ready to use to transfer and to manage tokens. 

Unikname mobile APP is the prefered user APP within our ecosystem. 

First of all Unikname mobile APP is used to: 
1. to authenticate connection to any web platform, 
1. to manage his/her @uniknames,
1. to manage his/her personal data linked with @uniknames,

but Unikname mobile APP is also used : 
- to handle and transfer UNS tokens, 
- to handle and transfer UNIK tokens, 
- to trigger transactions over the network and requiring tokens,
- to consume network services 

[Read more &rightarrow;](wallet)

### Use the SANDBOX, to test your developments, or to test new features

The SANDBOX is a uns.network dedicated for testing, it's operated by some delegates of the community.

You can connect a node to the SANDBOX by configuring the CLI, SDK, and even a dedicated chain explorer.

#### What can you do with the SANDBOX ?

- Creating test accounts
- Developing and testing applications for free (use the faucet to get SUNS tokens)
- Testing existing applications against new releases or release candidates of <uns/> Core

Please note that **this network is ephemeral**, and may be reset anytime. Resets will be announced several days before the effective operation, so follow [announcements published on the unik-name forum](https://forum.unik-name.com/c/uns-network).

#### SANDBOX faucet

If you need SUNS tokens to test the <uns/> features (creating your UNIK for example), you can ask for SUNS on [the unik-name forum](https://forum.unik-name.com/c/uns-network/faucet).
Don't forget to provide your wallet address, created with [the <uns/> CLI](cli.html#create-wallet) or [the desktop wallet](wallet) (it must start with a `S` letter, such as `SHxZ4PSU9uaDeEhsfinn8jCempbLwwyFQB`).
