docs/uns-usethenetwork/README.md, before:

---
home: false
title: "Interacting with the UNS Network"
---

# Interacting with the Network

Users can interact or let say 'use' the UNS Network in multiple ways depending on user's needs : 

### Use the CLI, to go fast with basic actions

The UNS CLI has been designed to facilitate basic actions and testing. With the CLI you can create a wallet, mint a @unik-name into the chain, update user's properties, list existing tokens or query the status of the network, and many other things. 

The UNS CLI communicate with a random node of the MAINNET, a random node of the DEVNET, or a choosen node. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](cli)

### Use the APIs, to consume network services

All network services can be used via the UNS APIs. This is the best way for developers to integrate UNS network services into their own developpements and APPs. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](api)

### Using the SDKs, to quickly embed UNS features, and @unik-name solutions, withing APPs

SDKs have been developped to simplify developer work when they integrate @unik-name solutions within their plateforms or their APPs. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](sdk)

### Using Wallets and @unik-name APP

Wallets are end user tools, ready to use to transfer and to manage tokens. 

@unik-name mobile APP is the prefered user APP within our ecosystem. 

First of all @unik-name mobile APP is used to: 
1. to authenticate connection to any web platform, 
1. to manage his/her @unik-names,
1. to manage his/her personal data linked with @unik-names,

but @unik-name mobile APP is also used : 
- to handle and transfer UNS tokens, 
- to handle and transfer UNIK tokens, 
- to trigger transactions over the network and requiring tokens,
- to consume network services 

[Read more &rightarrow;](wallet)

Commit message:

doc(network): explain what is the devnet and how to get DUNS on it (faucet)

docs/uns-usethenetwork/README.md, after:

---
home: false
title: "Interacting with the UNS Network"
---

# Interacting with the Network

Users can interact or let say 'use' the UNS Network in multiple ways depending on user's needs.

[[toc]]

### Use the CLI, to go fast with basic actions

The UNS CLI has been designed to facilitate basic actions and testing. With the CLI you can create a wallet, mint a @unik-name into the chain, update user's properties, list existing tokens or query the status of the network, and many other things. 

The UNS CLI communicate with a random node of the MAINNET, a random node of the DEVNET, or a choosen node. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](cli)

### Use the APIs, to consume network services

All network services can be used via the UNS APIs. This is the best way for developers to integrate UNS network services into their own developpements and APPs. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](api)

### Use the SDKs, to quickly embed UNS features, and @unik-name solutions, withing APPs

SDKs have been developped to simplify developer work when they integrate @unik-name solutions within their plateforms or their APPs. 

[Read more &rightarrow;](sdk)

### Use Wallets and @unik-name APP

Wallets are end user tools, ready to use to transfer and to manage tokens. 

@unik-name mobile APP is the prefered user APP within our ecosystem. 

First of all @unik-name mobile APP is used to: 
1. to authenticate connection to any web platform, 
1. to manage his/her @unik-names,
1. to manage his/her personal data linked with @unik-names,

but @unik-name mobile APP is also used : 
- to handle and transfer UNS tokens, 
- to handle and transfer UNIK tokens, 
- to trigger transactions over the network and requiring tokens,
- to consume network services 

[Read more &rightarrow;](wallet)

### Use the DEVNET, to test your developments and features to come

The DEVNET is a small test UNS network, run by 7 delegates of the community, which is open to developers.

You can connect a node to the DEVNET by configuring the CLI, SDK ... to use this configuration.

#### What can you do with the UNS DEVNET network?

- Creating test accounts
- Developing and testing applications for free (use the faucet to get DUNS)
- Testing existing applications against new releases or release candidates of UNS Core

Please note that **this network is ephemeral**, and may be reset anytime. Resets will be announced several days before the effective operation, so follow [announcements published on the UNS forum](https://forum.unik-name.com/c/uns-network).

#### DEVNET faucet

If you need DUNS to test the UNS network features (creating your UNIK for example), you can ask for DUNS on [the UNS forum](https://forum.unik-name.com/new-topic?title=Request%20for%20DUNS&body=Please%2C%20can%20you%20send%20me%20DUNS%20to%20interact%20with%20the%20UNS%20DEVNET%3F%0AMy%20wallet%20adress%3A%20D...%0A%0AThank%20you&category=uns-network&tags=faucet,devnet
).
Don't forget to provide your wallet address, created with [the UNS CLI](cli.html#create-wallet) or [the desktop wallet](wallet) (it must start with a `D` letter, such as `DHxZ4PSU9uaDeEhsfinn8jCempbLwwyFQB`).
