docs/introduction/README.md, before:

# What is UNS ? 

UNS is based on strong principles and technologies : blockchain and Ark framework. 

Before going further in our documentation, please read these **external** documentation :

## [Intro to Blockchain](https://arkdoc-23.developer.uns.network/introduction/blockchain/)
## [Intro to ARK](https://arkdoc-23.developer.uns.network/introduction/ark/)
## Intro to UNS

Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetur adipiscing elit. Vivamus laoreet neque purus. Interdum et malesuada fames ac ante ipsum primis in faucibus. Nunc eget facilisis purus. Aenean quis orci vel nibh facilisis hendrerit id nec arcu. Sed consectetur facilisis mi, sed sodales nunc placerat non. Cras eu pellentesque est. Nulla mattis, nisl eget mattis rhoncus, mauris orci auctor ligula, vulputate ultricies eros tellus eu diam. Nulla varius neque at congue malesuada.

Quisque elit felis, faucibus sed aliquet sit amet, mattis quis turpis. Nulla bibendum ornare metus, finibus porttitor massa ornare in. Sed hendrerit, lectus feugiat aliquet eleifend, lectus ex efficitur arcu, a convallis ex libero euismod massa. Quisque ac nisl finibus, congue odio ac, sodales eros. Praesent at molestie felis, et semper nisi. Nam non luctus diam. Etiam est arcu, tempor viverra commodo condimentum, ultricies in metus.

Donec diam odio, hendrerit non sodales suscipit, cursus hendrerit lorem. Nullam mattis, justo quis fermentum hendrerit, nibh ex tempus magna, id pellentesque felis sem non metus. Integer eu sollicitudin nibh. In lectus diam, tempor ultrices arcu vel, suscipit blandit urna. Fusce fermentum hendrerit arcu, in ultricies urna. Quisque id felis faucibus, porta nibh eu, elementum risus. Vivamus rhoncus, lacus vel consectetur tempus, lorem libero volutpat arcu, eu lacinia eros lorem vel ligula. Aliquam tellus dolor, posuere non nibh id, viverra viverra ante. Ut lacinia leo vestibulum blandit ultricies. Curabitur sed sollicitudin ipsum. Suspendisse nisi lacus, porta at neque vitae, venenatis consectetur dui. Cras sodales pharetra ante eu sodales. Duis imperdiet lacus eu nisi luctus, in semper neque pellentesque. Nam vel feugiat odio, in elementum lacus.

Duis risus elit, ornare a lacus at, fringilla dapibus diam. Class aptent taciti sociosqu ad litora torquent per conubia nostra, per inceptos himenaeos. Etiam venenatis justo vitae orci tincidunt, at imperdiet ligula volutpat. Aenean sollicitudin, dolor accumsan ornare ullamcorper, odio odio semper mi, id ultrices diam justo sit amet quam. Sed et quam maximus, hendrerit augue quis, rutrum diam. Nullam facilisis libero ligula, ac egestas purus sollicitudin sed. Morbi in tincidunt arcu, at eleifend quam.

Vestibulum ante ipsum primis in faucibus orci luctus et ultrices posuere cubilia Curae; Praesent nibh turpis, hendrerit sed sem in, pharetra lacinia nisi. Vivamus convallis rutrum tempor. Suspendisse non ligula sem. In venenatis velit libero, ac accumsan mauris consequat nec. Mauris non pellentesque sapien. Cras lobortis lacus sed orci blandit lobortis. Nulla at volutpat massa. Phasellus ac magna non velit feugiat aliquet ut eu enim. Quisque ac finibus augue. Nunc ut efficitur quam. Nullam convallis elit a suscipit blandit. Aliquam aliquet tincidunt turpis nec bibendum. Cras feugiat diam libero, vel euismod orci tincidunt id. Curabitur pharetra ipsum sit amet neque blandit tempus. Integer at gravida dolor.

Commit message:

docs: add UNIK token description

docs/introduction/README.md, after:

# What is UNS ? 

UNS is based on strong principles and technologies : blockchain and Ark framework. 

Before going further in our documentation, please read these **external** documentation :

## [Intro to Blockchain](https://arkdoc-23.developer.uns.network/introduction/blockchain/)


## [Intro to ARK](https://arkdoc-23.developer.uns.network/introduction/ark/)


## Intro to UNS

// TODO

### UNIK tokens

In order to manage @unik-names on chain we've decided to use the non-fungible token concept (*abbrev.* NFT). 

NFT is the best concept to fit @unik-name's needs :

- each token is unique
- each token has a single owner (a wallet)
- each token represents an asset thus not interchangeable
- each token is tradable
- each token can have properties

Thanks to these features, we can have a technical representation of what is a @unik-name on-chain.

But, let's introduce a little bit more NFT properties.

NFT has mainly two properties :

- an identifier, which is unique across all available NFTs of the same chain. Once set, it can't be deleted or updated. 
- an owner, which is the current and usually unique wallet address able to update NFT properties. 

UNIK **IS** an NFT so it inherits from these two properties. But it also has many more

- **type** : represents [@unik-name type]() and is immutable.
    - `1` for Individual.
    - `2` for Corporate.
