docs/uns-network-unik-name-use-case/README.md, before:

---
home: false
title: "@unik-name"
---

# @unik-name

First purposes of the <uns/> are to secure any web connections and to protect the user's privacy by providing sovereign IDs rooted in the blockchain. So as the first APP and DAPP available with the <uns/> serve these purposes. They've been package thru different solution to meet user needs and higly demanded use case. These solutions are the following ones:  

## my @unik-name

`my @unik-name` is a personal user's ID to replace email and password, disrupting the web connection experience in a safe ans simple way, and protecting user's privacy. Get only one @unik-name, and use it everywhere and everyday. Get your own @unik-name identifier right now!

## @unik-name Connect

`@unik-name Connect` is the easiest and safest authentication solution for any saas platforms and mobile apps. This solution have been designed for Saas platforms with users sensitive to the protection of their privacy, who want to be shure not to be tracked, and fleeing Facebook Connect or Sign In with Apple. Integrating `@unik-name Connect` to these platforms will  increase value proposition for their visitors, and will improve security. No more need to manage and to secure user's passwords and database!

## @unik-name Cetificate Pinning

`@unik-name Certificate Pinning` is the solution to secure mobile apps against falsified SSL X509 certificates and against man-in-the-middle attacks. This solution is dedicated to companies having a mobile App providing access to sensitive information. This solution have been designed with a Bank. 

## @unik-name Trust Domains

`@unik-name Trust Domains` is the anti-phishing solution. This solution runs with @unik-name Connect and provide a cybersecurity solution for companies exposed to fishing risks.

Commit message:

docs(anywhere): refactor use of @unik-name, @unikname and Unikname

docs/uns-network-unik-name-use-case/README.md, after:

---
home: false
title: "Unikname"
---

# Unikname

First purposes of the <uns/> are to secure any web connections and to protect the user's privacy by providing sovereign IDs rooted in the blockchain. So as the first APP and DAPP available with the <uns/> serve these purposes. They've been package thru different solution to meet user needs and higly demanded use case. These solutions are the following ones:  

## My @unik-name

`My @unik-name` is a personal user's ID to replace email and password, disrupting the web connection experience in a safe ans simple way, and protecting user's privacy. Get only one @unikname, and use it everywhere and everyday. Get your own @unikname identifier right now!

## Unikname Connect

`Unikname Connect` is the easiest and safest authentication solution for any saas platforms and mobile apps. This solution have been designed for Saas platforms with users sensitive to the protection of their privacy, who want to be shure not to be tracked, and fleeing Facebook Connect or Sign In with Apple. Integrating `Unikname Connect` to these platforms will  increase value proposition for their visitors, and will improve security. No more need to manage and to secure user's passwords and database!

## Unikname Cetificate Pinning

`Unikname Certificate Pinning` is the solution to secure mobile apps against falsified SSL X509 certificates and against man-in-the-middle attacks. This solution is dedicated to companies having a mobile App providing access to sensitive information. This solution have been designed with a Bank. 

## Unikname Trust Domains

`Unikname Trust Domains` is the anti-phishing solution. This solution runs with Unikname Connect and provide a cybersecurity solution for companies exposed to fishing risks.
