docs/creating-your-unikname-individual.md, before:

---
next: /registering-as-delegate.html
---

# Creating @unikname id as an individual

You want to become a delegate with an individual @unikname id, so you need to create your individual @unikname id.

👉 If you have changed your mind, you can also [become a delegate with an organization @unikname id](./creating-unikname-organization.html).

**Table of Content**

[[toc]]

## Coupon

You can create @unikname id with a minium of 15 characters for free.

If you want to create special @unikname id with less than 15 charaters, it requires a coupon. and if you have one, you can continue. 

Otherwise, contact us on [contact@unikname.com](mailto:contact@unikname.com) to request one.

## Install the "My Unikname App"

The creation of your @unikname id is done through [My Unikname App](https://my.unikname.app/).
To launch the application, follow this link with your **Android smartphone or iPhone** (**and your phone only**):

👉 [https://my.unikname.app/](https://my.unikname.app/).

Once the application is installed on your home screen, launch the application and follow the steps displayed on your screen.

One of the first steps you will be asked is to create your pin code.
It is this code that will allow you to access the application later and manage your @unikname.

![pin-code](/images/pin-code.png)


## Create your @unikname

On the next screen, choose the option that corresponds to your situation depending on whether you have a coupon ("I GOT A COUPON") or not ("GET A FREE @UNIKNAME").

![homepage](/images/homepage.png)

After you choose your option, you should arrive on a page to create your @unikname!

![create-unikname](/images/create-unikname.png)

:::tip
*Once you've chosen a name, you won't be able to change it. So choose it carefully!*
:::

Don't forget to backup and secure your passphrase, it will allow you to retrieve access to your @unikname in case you change your device.
Neither <brand name="uns"/>, nor Unikname will be able to give you back access to your @unikname.

Commit message:

docs: explain how to activate a @unikname on sandbox

docs/creating-your-unikname-individual.md, after:

---
next: /registering-as-delegate.html
---

# Creating @unikname id as an individual

You want to become a delegate with an individual @unikname id, so you need to create your individual @unikname id.

👉 If you have changed your mind, you can also [become a delegate with an organization @unikname id](./creating-unikname-organization.html).

**Table of Content**

[[toc]]

## Coupon

You can create @unikname id with a minium of 15 characters for free.

If you want to create special @unikname id with less than 15 charaters, it requires a coupon. and if you have one, you can continue. 

Otherwise, contact us on [contact@unikname.com](mailto:contact@unikname.com) to request one.

## Install the "My Unikname App"

The creation of your @unikname id is done through [My Unikname App](https://my.unikname.app/).
To launch the application, follow this link with your **Android smartphone or iPhone** (**and your phone only**):

👉 [https://my.unikname.app/](https://my.unikname.app/).

Once the application is installed on your home screen, launch the application and follow the steps displayed on your screen.

One of the first steps you will be asked is to create your pin code.
It is this code that will allow you to access the application later and manage your @unikname.

![pin-code](/images/pin-code.png)


## Create your @unikname

On the next screen, choose the option that corresponds to your situation depending on whether you have a coupon ("I GOT A COUPON") or not ("GET A FREE @UNIKNAME").

![homepage](/images/homepage.png)

After you choose your option, you should land on a page to create your @unikname.

![create-unikname](/images/create-unikname.png)

:::tip
*Once you've chosen a name, you won't be able to change it. So choose it carefully!*
:::

Don't forget to backup and secure your passphrase, it will allow you to retrieve access to your @unikname in case you change your device.
Neither <brand name="uns"/>, nor Unikname will be able to give you back access to your @unikname.

## Activate your @unikname to become Alive

You can't become a delegate if your @unikname is not alive. So you must activate.

Go to the list of your @unikname, then chose the one you to activate and click `Activate unikname`, then follow the process.

::: tip @unikname activation on the Sandbox network

On the Sandbox network, use the [`unik:activation` command](/cli.html#unik-activation) of the CLI to activate your @unikname.

:::
