docs/docker-compose-management.md, before:

# UNS Core Docker Compose Management

## Main management commands

### Starting the node in the foreground

Core and database are launched in the foreground:

`docker-compose up -d`

You can stop them with `CTRL+C`.

### Starting the node in the background

Core and database are launched in the background:

`docker-compose up -d`

### Stopping the node running in the background

Core and database are stopped. Data are kept.

`docker-compose down`

### Stopping the node running in the background and remove data about it

::: warning Removing the node's data

This command will remove all data related to the node.
So you will need to resynchronize your node!
:::

Core and database are stopped. Data are removed.

`docker-compose down -v`

### Get UNS Core version from Docker image

```
docker image inspect --format="{{ index .Config.Labels \"org.label-schema.version\"}}" universalnamesystem/core:livenet
```
Replace ```livenet``` by ```sandbox``` for Sandbox images

## Docker Compose File

From configuration file we can see that 2 services will be started: the node and its database.

You also have volumes mounted on the file system (for node and database files) and a local network for services communication.

Official Docker Compose files:
- [For Livenet](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unik-name/docs.uns.network/master/docs/setting-up-uns-node/livenet/docker-compose.yml): `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unik-name/docs.uns.network/master/docs/setting-up-uns-node/livenet/docker-compose.yml`
- [For Sandbox](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unik-name/docs.uns.network/master/docs/setting-up-uns-node/sandbox/docker-compose.yml): `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unik-name/docs.uns.network/master/docs/setting-up-uns-node/sandbox/docker-compose.yml`

### The database service

Based on [`postgres` (version 11+ and Linux alpine)](https://github.com/docker-library/postgres/blob/0a66d53fface5ccc8274f99712ba2f382a1caf42/11/alpine/Dockerfile), it exposes a single port (`5432`) and requires environment variables (for db name, user name and password).
These variables must match with those provided in the node service (see below).

### The node service

The node service is based on our `universalnamesystem/core` image (`livenet` or `sandbox` tags). 

It has two exposed ports; for p2p (`4001`/`4001`) and for API (`4003`), and mount 3 volumes (for logs, forger secret and configuration files).

Some environment variables are set :
- for the database: port, user name, user password and db name
- for the network
- and the forger secret: line `FORGER_SECRET`, commented by default

All environment variables can be found in the [Core configuration documentation](/docker-configuration.html).

## Development setup

Either because you want to develop on Core or because you need to build the node locally (eg. for a specific architecture: Raspberry PI, Silicon ...), follow the instructions.

### Local development

- Build the node: `yarn setup`
- Start dockerized Postgres: `yarn docker:db $network` with `$network=livenet|sandbox`
- Run the node: `cd packages/core && yarn $nodeType:$network` with `$nodeType=relay|forger`

### Build and run the Core container

- Build the container: `cd scripts/docker && ./build.sh`
- Start dockerized Postgres: `yarn docker:db $network` with `$network=livenet|sandbox`
- Run the node: 

```
docker run --  \
    -e UNS_NET=livenet|sandbox \
    -e CORE_DB_HOST=... \
    -e CORE_DB_PORT=5432 \
    -e CORE_DB_DATABASE=... \
    -e CORE_DB_USERNAME=... \
    -e CORE_DB_PASSWORD=... \
    -p 4001:4001 \ # or 4002:4002 for sandbox
    -p 4003:4003 \
    universalnamesystem/core:latest
```

Commit message:

feat: rebrand uns.network and tokens

docs/docker-compose-management.md, after:

# Unikname Core Docker Compose Management

::: warning
UNS/uns.network/universal-name-system is the old name of unikname.network blockchain.
UNIK is the old name of UNIKNAME nft token
UNS is the old name of UNIK protocol token
Urls, commands and old documentation are not renamed yet but are still valid. We're updating progressively.
:::

## Main management commands

### Starting the node in the foreground

Core and database are launched in the foreground:

`docker-compose up -d`

You can stop them with `CTRL+C`.

### Starting the node in the background

Core and database are launched in the background:

`docker-compose up -d`

### Stopping the node running in the background

Core and database are stopped. Data are kept.

`docker-compose down`

### Stopping the node running in the background and remove data about it

::: warning Removing the node's data

This command will remove all data related to the node.
So you will need to resynchronize your node!
:::

Core and database are stopped. Data are removed.

`docker-compose down -v`

### Get unikname.network Core version from Docker image

```
docker image inspect --format="{{ index .Config.Labels \"org.label-schema.version\"}}" universalnamesystem/core:livenet
```
Replace ```livenet``` by ```sandbox``` for Sandbox images

## Docker Compose File

From configuration file we can see that 2 services will be started: the node and its database.

You also have volumes mounted on the file system (for node and database files) and a local network for services communication.

Official Docker Compose files:
- [For Livenet](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unik-name/docs.uns.network/master/docs/setting-up-uns-node/livenet/docker-compose.yml): `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unik-name/docs.uns.network/master/docs/setting-up-uns-node/livenet/docker-compose.yml`
- [For Sandbox](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unik-name/docs.uns.network/master/docs/setting-up-uns-node/sandbox/docker-compose.yml): `https://raw.githubusercontent.com/unik-name/docs.uns.network/master/docs/setting-up-uns-node/sandbox/docker-compose.yml`

### The database service

Based on [`postgres` (version 11+ and Linux alpine)](https://github.com/docker-library/postgres/blob/0a66d53fface5ccc8274f99712ba2f382a1caf42/11/alpine/Dockerfile), it exposes a single port (`5432`) and requires environment variables (for db name, user name and password).
These variables must match with those provided in the node service (see below).

### The node service

The node service is based on our `universalnamesystem/core` image (`livenet` or `sandbox` tags). 

It has two exposed ports; for p2p (`4001`/`4001`) and for API (`4003`), and mount 3 volumes (for logs, forger secret and configuration files).

Some environment variables are set :
- for the database: port, user name, user password and db name
- for the network
- and the forger secret: line `FORGER_SECRET`, commented by default

All environment variables can be found in the [Core configuration documentation](/docker-configuration.html).

## Development setup

Either because you want to develop on Core or because you need to build the node locally (eg. for a specific architecture: Raspberry PI, Silicon ...), follow the instructions.

### Local development

- Build the node: `yarn setup`
- Start dockerized Postgres: `yarn docker:db $network` with `$network=livenet|sandbox`
- Run the node: `cd packages/core && yarn $nodeType:$network` with `$nodeType=relay|forger`

### Build and run the Core container

- Build the container: `cd scripts/docker && ./build.sh`
- Start dockerized Postgres: `yarn docker:db $network` with `$network=livenet|sandbox`
- Run the node: 

```
docker run --  \
    -e UNS_NET=livenet|sandbox \
    -e CORE_DB_HOST=... \
    -e CORE_DB_PORT=5432 \
    -e CORE_DB_DATABASE=... \
    -e CORE_DB_USERNAME=... \
    -e CORE_DB_PASSWORD=... \
    -p 4001:4001 \ # or 4002:4002 for sandbox
    -p 4003:4003 \
    universalnamesystem/core:latest
```
