docs/registering-as-delegate.md, before:

---
home: false
---

# Registering as a delegate

[[toc]]

::: warning
UNS/uns.network/universal-name-system is the old name of unikname.network blockchain.
UNIK is the old name of UNIKNAME nft token
UNS is the old name of UNIK protocol token
Urls, commands and old documentation are not renamed yet but are still valid. We're updating progressively.
:::

## Installing the unikname.network CLI

The <brand name="uns"/> Command Line Interface (CLI) makes it easy to manage your @unikname and Unikname apps directly from the terminal.
It’s an essential part of using <brand name="uns"/>.

| <h3>Operating system</h3> | <h3>Download</h3> | <h3>Instructions</h3> |
|:-----------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------:|
| <h2><vp-icon name="windows-brands" size="2em" /><br/>Windows</h2>    | <h4>![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uns/cli?color=029A98&label=UNS%20CLI&logoColor=FE7644)</h4><h3>[Download the installer](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-x64.exe)</h3> | <p>Run the installer you have downloaded.</p><p>Windows may display a warning, just click **Run anyway**.</p> |
| <h2><vp-icon name="apple-brands" size="2em" /><br/>MacOS</h2>        | <h4>![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uns/cli?color=029A98&label=UNS%20CLI&logoColor=FE7644)</h4><h3>[Download the installer](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns.pkg)</h3> | <p>Run the installer you have downloaded.</p> |
| <h2><vp-icon name="linux-brands" size="2em" /><br/>Linux</h2>        | <h4>![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uns/cli?color=029A98&label=UNS%20CLI&logoColor=FE7644)</h4><h3>[Download the archive](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-linux-x64.tar.gz)</h3> | <p>After having downloaded the archive, add `{TARBALL_EXTRACTION_FOLDER}/bin` into your `PATH` environment variable in order to run the `uns` command.</p> |

[Alternate installation modes are also available in the CLI documentation](/cli.html#download-and-installation).

:::tip On Windows
Execute the file downloaded to procede to installation.
Windows may display a warning, but don't worry, just continue the procedure.*
:::

You can check that your installation is finished by entering `uns` into your command prompt.
You should see the following menu :

```bash
$ uns
UNS.network CLI

VERSION
  @uns/cli/X.X.X XXX XXX

USAGE
  $ uns [COMMAND]

COMMANDS
  cryptoaccount  Manage Crypto Account (`uns cryptoaccount` to display Crypto Account commands)
  ...
```

If you want more details about the CLI and tips to use it, check the [CLI documentation](/cli).
You are now ready for the next step !

## Registering as a delegate

Congratulations! Now that you have:
* a cryptoaccount with some UNIK
* a @unikname linked to your cryptoaccount

Now, you can register as a delegate!

::: warning Registering as a delegate

:warning: You are about **registering yourself as a <brand name="uns"/> delegate**. :warning:

Don't execute the following command if you are trying to create your @unikname id to integrate your application with Unikname Connect. [Go to the Unikname Help Center](https://help.unikname.com/3-unikname-connect/) instead.

:::

Here is the complete process:

```
uns unik:disclose "@hello-world" -e "hello-world"
```

```
uns delegate:register "@hello-world"
```

```
uns delegate:vote "@hello-world"
```

Replace `hello-world` by your own @unikname id.

## Checking your delegate status in the Explorer

You can check on [explorer](https://explorer.unikname.network/delegate-monitor) that your @unikname is in the delegate list.
To start forging blocks, you'll need to set up a node.

Let's now configure your unikname.network node.

Commit message:

docs: invert note setup and delegate register steps

docs/registering-as-delegate.md, after:

---
home: false
---

# Registering as a delegate

[[toc]]

::: warning
UNS/uns.network/universal-name-system is the old name of unikname.network blockchain.
UNIK is the old name of UNIKNAME nft token
UNS is the old name of UNIK protocol token
Urls, commands and old documentation are not renamed yet but are still valid. We're updating progressively.
:::

## Installing the unikname.network CLI

The <brand name="uns"/> Command Line Interface (CLI) makes it easy to manage your @unikname and Unikname apps directly from the terminal.
It’s an essential part of using <brand name="uns"/>.

| <h3>Operating system</h3> | <h3>Download</h3> | <h3>Instructions</h3> |
|:-----------------------------------:|:----------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------:|
| <h2><vp-icon name="windows-brands" size="2em" /><br/>Windows</h2>    | <h4>![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uns/cli?color=029A98&label=UNS%20CLI&logoColor=FE7644)</h4><h3>[Download the installer](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-x64.exe)</h3> | <p>Run the installer you have downloaded.</p><p>Windows may display a warning, just click **Run anyway**.</p> |
| <h2><vp-icon name="apple-brands" size="2em" /><br/>MacOS</h2>        | <h4>![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uns/cli?color=029A98&label=UNS%20CLI&logoColor=FE7644)</h4><h3>[Download the installer](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns.pkg)</h3> | <p>Run the installer you have downloaded.</p> |
| <h2><vp-icon name="linux-brands" size="2em" /><br/>Linux</h2>        | <h4>![Version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@uns/cli?color=029A98&label=UNS%20CLI&logoColor=FE7644)</h4><h3>[Download the archive](https://unikname-cli-assets.s3.fr-par.scw.cloud/uns-linux-x64.tar.gz)</h3> | <p>After having downloaded the archive, add `{TARBALL_EXTRACTION_FOLDER}/bin` into your `PATH` environment variable in order to run the `uns` command.</p> |

[Alternate installation modes are also available in the CLI documentation](/cli.html#download-and-installation).

:::tip On Windows
Execute the file downloaded to procede to installation.
Windows may display a warning, but don't worry, just continue the procedure.*
:::

You can check that your installation is finished by entering `uns` into your command prompt.
You should see the following menu :

```bash
$ uns
UNS.network CLI

VERSION
  @uns/cli/X.X.X XXX XXX

USAGE
  $ uns [COMMAND]

COMMANDS
  cryptoaccount  Manage Crypto Account (`uns cryptoaccount` to display Crypto Account commands)
  ...
```

If you want more details about the CLI and tips to use it, check the [CLI documentation](/cli).
You are now ready for the next step !

## Registering as a delegate

Congratulations! Now that you have:
* a cryptoaccount with some UNIK
* a @unikname linked to your cryptoaccount
* a running instance of unn-core node configured as forger with your passphrase

Now, you can register as a delegate!

::: warning Registering as a delegate

:warning: You are about **registering yourself as a <brand name="uns"/> delegate**. :warning:

Don't execute the following command if you are trying to create your @unikname id to integrate your application with Unikname Connect. [Go to the Unikname Help Center](https://help.unikname.com/3-unikname-connect/) instead.

:::

Here is the complete process:

```
uns unik:disclose "@hello-world" -e "hello-world"
```

```
uns delegate:register "@hello-world"
```

```
uns delegate:vote "@hello-world"
```

Replace `hello-world` by your own @unikname id.

## Checking your delegate status in the Explorer

Now, your job is done.
You can check on [explorer](https://explorer.uns.network/delegate-monitor) that you're in the delegate list (either in `active` or `standby` tab).

If you're in the `active` tab, congratulation, you're a <brand name="uns"/> delegate, and your forger node is actually forging blocks and getting rewards!

If you're in the `standby` tab, you need to gather more voting power than current active delegates (i.e. have cryptoaccounts with positive balance voting for you).

Once your node is fully synchronized and forging block you should see a green status in [network-monitor](https://explorer.unikname.network/network-monitor).

Let's go fot the final steps.
